This is my last press conference as
chair. I want to congratulate Kevin
Warsh on his advancement out of the
Senate Banking Committee this [music]
morning. I will continue to serve as a
governor for a period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor.
Fed chair Jay Powell there after his
final policy meeting as head of the Fed.
Officials of course keeping [music]
rates unchanged and on hold due to the
uncertainty over the war in Iran. You're
watching the China show. Good morning by
the way from the Asia Pacific. I'm David
Ingles here in Hong Kong.
And I'm April Hong in Singapore. We're
counting down to the open of markets in
the greater China region. Our top
stories, Asian [music] stocks and
treasuries drop on the Fed decision with
three members dissenting in [music]
favor of a more hawkish tilt. Meanwhile,
the Japanese yen leading currency
declines across the region.
Brent crude fueling market jitters after
surging to its [music] highest since
as President Trump rejects Iran's
proposal on the Strait of Hormuz.
And soaring chip sales lift Samsung's
profits past estimates reflecting
[music]
massive spending by hyperscalers on AI
hardware.
>> [music]
>> Good morning once again. Thank you for
joining us today as we get into the
[music] thick of the Thursday session
and
9:00 a.m. Hong Kong, Singapore time is
quite relevant these days given of
course you are getting a lot more equity
markets coming online. So I'm watching
Singapore very specifically. We're
looking at Taiwan. Actually all punching
higher substantially April going into
the session today. The other thing
things that are opening up right now
EMFX, Aussie and FX, right? Dollar peso
is again seeing some upside here on the
back of the stronger dollar Brent back
above what touched 120 again on the
front end of the contract. So Aussie and
FX
particularly among the EM importers of
oil are seeing this extent. And of
course when you can we look at G10 it's
really the yen at the 160 handle that's
also very much
in focus here. And again intervention
risk if not already across some parts of
the FX complex. And yes, it's the
hawkish hold from the Fed and as we make
our way into the
the other central banks on tap today
April.
Yeah, as we watch for perhaps the
intervention risk we are watching Japan
as it's open lower. It was shut
yesterday of course and we've been
seeing the first hour of trading already
the likes of SoftBank that is the drag
still those open AI concerns. But you
talked about watching Singapore of
course we'll be tracking DBS. We're
trading higher now on the back of
earnings.
But also earnings from Samsung right?
And if you take a look at how we are
fairing across the big tech names in
Asia Samsung is really really the one
that's standing out holding its head
above what we see in the likes of Japan
for example. And this chart also shows
you how when you compare
and think about the AI chip profit
driven 48-fold surge. That's really
what's been underpinning the cheapness
of the stock in a way. If you look at
PEs they're roughly five and this
compares to even likes of ICBC China's
largest bank where you have roughly six
on the PE ratios. That's one thing to
look at as well and of course against
the backdrop of the mag seven earnings
David.
Yeah, which I think when you look at
Nasdaq futures are punching slightly to
the upside and I mean just speaking of
earnings right? A ton of earnings coming
through out of the the Chinese markets.
I think when you look at so in tech you
have the likes of Cambricon, which we'll
talk about later on.
Uh the big banks also came out with
earnings and of course alongside
the opening bell today will be the
release of PMI numbers. So we'll see
what that looks like for the month
of April. Looking at estimates, a slight
downtick from I believe the figure that
we got from
for March. Futures as you can see are
pointing to the downside. Most though,
at least US since have stabilized and we
are pointing quite materially higher in
as far as these contracts are concerned.
Asia though is feeling a bit of a pinch.
It's also worth reminding a lot of folks
out there that we we are effectively
going to be shut for tomorrow for most
of the region. So this is really the
last trading day for most markets here
across the Asia Pacific. April.
Yeah, last trading day, last Fed meet
for Powell.
And against this backdrop we have these
Fed officials, right, leaving those
interest rates unchanged. They've also
revealed a deepening division over the
outlook for policy amid increased
uncertainty caused by the conflict in
the Middle East. Four officials
dissented, three of them objecting to
dovish language in their post-meeting
statement, while Fed Governor Stephen
Myron wanted a rate cut. Jerome Powell
also says he intends to remain in the
central bank as what he describes as a
low-profile governor. We heard from him
earlier in his last news conference as
Fed chair.
We think our policy rate is in a good
place. People are not saying we need to
hike now. I don't think there's a much
of a case for any case really for the
for
policy looking, you know, meaningfully
restrictive, maybe mildly restrictive or
neutral. I will continue to serve as a
governor for period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor.
There's only ever one chair
[clears throat] of the Federal Reserve
Board. When Kevin Warsh is confirmed and
sworn in, he will be that chair. The
things that have happened in the really
in the last 3 months of of I think left
me no choice but to stay. I am
confident, as I said in my remarks, that
the Fed will continue to make its
decision based on analysis, rigorous
analysis, and not on political
considerations, but we've had to fight
for it.
Yeah, uh we're calling it Powell's last
stand. According to Bloomberg Economics,
the title of the Bloomberg News article
specifically on this very topic, as you
look at through this quote here, is
Warsh is set to inherit a Fed that looks
ready to fight rate cuts, the move from
this easing bias to a more symmetrical
position based on the comment coming
through out of Anna Wong, our chief
economist at Bloomberg Economics. Let's
get a take from Citi. Johanna Chua is
here with us, head of EM Economics at
Citigroup Global Markets. Good morning,
very nice to see you. Markets saw this
as hawkish. Is that Is that the correct
interpretation? Yes, I think so. Look,
there's no surprise that the Fed stayed
on hold, but I think it is interesting
that we had you know, again, three
dissenters against the easing bias. I
mean, the Steve Moore and his view is
not really a surprise.
Uh so yeah, no, I think this is
obviously the data that's come out of
the US lately in terms of activity data.
We have to admit has been fairly
resilient. So it It's not a huge
surprise, but again, the fact that you
did have a shift of three dissenters,
you know, two joining the third, I think
does at the margin uh move on the
hawkish side. So obviously we've seen uh
short-end yields in the US uh back up.
Uh do we see a pick up in inflation in
the next few months? Uh I think
certainly the risks are there. I mean,
you have this kind of The difference
between the Fed and other global central
banks is you have a dual mandate. Uh so
at the moment, obviously, we still have
continued pressure because as you can
see, oil prices continue to surge, the
Strait of Hormuz is still uh still
closed. Uh so there's obviously pressure
in core. I think there's been a
disconnect between core PCE, which has
been a lot higher, more elevated than
core CPI. So again, to the extent that
what is the Fed's preferred metric? Now,
some of that may be because the
weighting of these electronic kind of
goods component is much higher weight in
the core PCE, which is shifting higher.
And as you know, this AI cycle and the
shortage of some of the electronic goods
continue to drive prices higher. So
again, that's kind of on the one side
keeping a hawkish bias, but on the other
hand, I mean, you know, again, as as
also what Powell had said, I mean, there
is still some sign that, you know, Paul
they say policy is maybe mildly
restrictive. We are expecting that
especially over the course of the summer
with seasonality helping at the margin,
we would see kind of a gradual loosening
of the labor market. So that's why, I
mean, Citi as a house view, we have
still maintained our view of an easing
bias. But obviously, the longer this
this crisis drags on in Iran and the
resilience of global financial
conditions, obviously those risks are
there.
Joanna, Evelyn here with
Powell's last stand, so to speak, it was
notable his tenure and the way he was
able to build consensus. What are you
expecting from the next Fed chair? And
how difficult is this going to be
because we've essentially seen from this
meeting that the center of the committee
seems to be moving towards neutral. What
is this going to mean for all the
ensuing meetings for the rest of the
year?
Look, I think, you know, again, we
cannot presuppose that, you know, Kevin
Warsh necessarily will be pushing for a
cuts. I mean, again, a lot of this
really depends on extraordinary
developments that are happening. But I
think people are wondering to what
extent that if you do have people moving
to neutral and if if Kevin Warsh is
biased more to ease, will we have
intensifying tension? But like I said, a
lot of that really has to do with the
data. I actually think the fact that
we've got the DOJ investigation being
dropped, you know, I think, you know,
Kevin Warsh I think still is a is a good
candidate that will continue to
reinstate central bank independence. So
by and large, you know, of course
there'll be some dissent depending on
the data.
But again, I I think eventually, you
know, Kevin Warsh will pursue what is
right in terms of inflation credibility
and the mandate of the of the Federal
Reserve.
I take your point on that.
The other aspect is how he seems to be
signaling maybe less Fed communications,
less forward guidance. What is your
expectation then of the visibility we
might get for the rest of the year?
Yeah, look, I I think these are always
some things that are you know, sometimes
there's always a debate about do you
over communicate, do you under
communicate? Sometimes if you give too
much forward guidance when there's a lot
of uncertainty, uh, it can actually add
to the volatility. So, look, I I think
right now the focus is really going to
be what's been happening obviously
globally with the straight, what's
happening on the how the evolution of
all prices, uh, obviously how is that
going to translate to potentially
inflationary pressures on core goods, to
what extent is services disinflation is
going to help offset that for the Fed.
But again, I think what is unique about
the Fed versus what we're seeing in
other central banks is this dual
mandate. And we really need to see to
what extent, uh, are we continuing to
see signs of kind of softening in the
labor market that can balance out
uh, any kind of stickiness on the
inflation front and therefore the easing
bias will still persist. And you know,
again, our view is the easing bias will
still persist, but obviously the market
is debating this as the you know, as the
developments and events evolve over the
coming months. Where the easing bias has
disappeared is most parts of the Asia
Pacific, right? A lot of people have
started hiking interest rates.
Um,
what's happened to the energy crisis?
So, you know, when the war started, we
saw lines around blocks for gasoline, we
had officials coming out and talking
about how inventory levels were X amount
X amount of weeks.
Uh, so my question is is it a where is
it are we in a crisis? Have you gotten
questions around the short
and where where where is it showing up?
Actually, I don't think we're in a
crisis. I mean, obviously when you have
this massive supply shock, clearly East
Asia is much more vulnerable because of
our exposure to Middle East oil. And
then what happened was actually a lot of
the lower middle income, lower income,
smaller economies kind of got affected a
little bit more because again, you don't
have enough refining capacity, you don't
have enough strategic buffers, you don't
have as much fiscal quasi-fiscal
capacity to intervene. So, they kind of
bore the initial brunt. So, you saw that
obviously Philippines globally with the
exception of Myanmar globally has had
the biggest increase in like, you know,
fuel prices particularly diesel. So,
you're seeing some demand destruction
but the demand destruction is happening
via the price mechanism. When you have
prices go up a lot, then demand adjust.
But I would have to say by and large the
adjustments have not been that
disorderly. It's been a fairly orderly
adjustment and the initial shock Asia
bore the brunt. But if you look at as
time passed going into April, we saw
more and more economies starting to
translate the pass-through of the fuel.
So, you're starting to distribute some
of that shock. Of course, there's a few
holdouts in globally. I mean, in Asia,
India and Indonesia are kind of
outstanding holdouts. Where they still
have not adjusted the fuel prices.
So, you're if you're not adjusting fuel
prices, you're not allowing demand
destruction to happen, you're actually
creating twin deficit pressures. But for
the others, yeah, there's been some
adjustment and then you see in countries
like Korea and Taiwan, it's really
ironic. Korea and Taiwan, large net
energy importing economies, guess what?
We actually upgraded their GDP growth
because the AI cycle has been so strong
and rather than have a significant terms
of trade deterioration in the current
account because they have so much
pricing power on semiconductor, it's
actually gone the opposite. And the
interesting thing about Asia, so the
large giants like China and India, we
actually really haven't changed our
growth forecast notwithstanding, you
know, everyone talking about India being
a net energy importer. And again, part
of that is because obviously China has a
lot of buffers but India has a lot of
refining capacity. It's still
suppressing the demand destruction
through fiscal intervention. So, right
now it's really the smaller countries
that are getting squeezed. Now, let's
see. I think with the passage of time
that the strait is still not open, I
think questions are being raised. I
mean, can India sustain, can a net
energy importing economy continue to
sustain suppression of pass-through?
>> Yeah.
Yeah. To your point about let's see how
things go. I mean, this has dragged on
what, 2 plus months now.
Um the worries are how economies are
tackling and thinking about longer-term
energy resilience.
What is that going to mean? Do you see
that already reshaping economies in a
way?
Right. So, obviously right now, yes,
you're absolutely right. It takes time
to build energy resilience.
Unfortunately, it costs money to build
energy resilience. So, I think there's
going to be different kind of strategies
around that. I mean, obviously, uh I
think the value of strategic reserve
buffers are going to be so important on
the back of this. And in Asia Pacific,
the one economy that stood out in terms
of an IEA member that was not holding
the minimum kind of recommendation of
IEA of 90 days been Australia. So,
clearly there's going to be a rethink
about rebuilding strategic buffers,
whether it's oil or fuels, et cetera.
Now, for other economies, the smaller
countries, again, it depends on you
know, this costs money. So, obviously,
it's going to be a it's going to vary a
lot. Uh the other thing that people are
going to think about is I I guess some
countries will say, "Okay, maybe it's
really important to have more refining
capacity." But then the question there
is you need money, you need capital. How
are you going to find refining capacity?
So, actually, what's happened on the
backdrop, the kind of the easier
immediate the kind of response to this
is, you know, obviously, we're seeing a
lot of countries kind of diversify their
sourcing away from Middle East say for
gas. You you diversify to US, you
diversify to Australia. We've definitely
seen this in North Asia. I mean,
clearly, China, there's also been a lot
of discussion in the news about you try
to develop alternative routes around the
Strait of Hormuz. So, maybe you develop
overland routes to Central Asia, another
second pipeline through Russia. Again,
those require money. The large countries
can do it. The richer countries can do
it. The smaller economies is really a
much more challenging environment. So,
what we're seeing for some of the South
and Southeast Asian economies to kind of
mitigate the shock is we've seen news,
right? They're trying to tap more into
coal. So, we see that in Thailand, we
see that in Indonesia, you know, we're
going to see that in Bangladesh. Uh, and
then also, you know, of course, in in
Korea and Taiwan, especially in Taiwan,
there's been a huge about-face on
nuclear. And then lastly, of course,
everyone is talking about renewable. I
mean, moving more to wind and solar. I
mean, that's already been a story that's
been happening over the last number of
years, but I have to say ASEAN has
lagged in terms of adoption of
renewables. So, the question is whether
we're going to see a shift there. And
that's really a way to minimize your
vulnerability to maritime choke points.
Because once you import, you you know,
you import a solar panel or a wind
turbine, I mean, average life is like 20
to 25 years. So, you don't have to keep
importing constantly, uh, exposing
yourself to maritime choke points. So,
those things are probably going to be
discussed over the medium-long term. And
obviously, for energy transition,
renewable, that's going to benefit
China.
Benefit China, but to your point, this
is going to be the impact of the war
looking a bit uneven across the economy,
right? At the time where we are still
seeing demand looking pretty tepid, even
though parts of the industrial sector,
maybe they're benefiting from what we're
seeing from the war in a way. Talk to us
about the nuances in you not changing
the forecast for China here.
Right. Look, I think obviously, China
came into the shock fairly resilient,
right? So, they've already kind of built
up an entire energy infrastructure when
it comes to I mean, electricity
generation, China is among the least
vulnerable, right? Because much of their
electricity is not only renewable, but
you have a lot of coal, domestically
produced very cheap coal. So, they're
not really as exposed. And then
obviously, when it comes to fuel oil,
you know, you've had huge amount of
electrification of transport. So,
there's a lot of resilience there. Not
to mention that they have a lot of
strategic, uh, buffers and obviously,
they have enough, kind of refined fuel,
kind of, uh, for for their domestic
economy. Um, so, that's why it's been
resilient. And obviously, you know, as
again, the In fact, the story right now
is notwithstanding all the talk about
demand destruction with what's happening
with the with the with what's happening
in the Gulf. Overall, I mean, global
growth we have been downgrading, but it
hasn't been a dramatic downgrade. Well,
we're not yet at a point of talking
about global recession.
Clearly, one thing that's helped is
we've seen kind of a resilience in
global financial conditions. So, I think
right now, you know, the export engine
in China and they're still being able to
squeeze out a little bit and you know,
first quarter growth was still about 5%.
Now, the question is obviously the
longer this crisis drags on, there's
going to be more and more pressure
because obviously for China, you know,
in the last couple of years net exports
has been a bigger contributor to GDP
growth.
Now, our view is of course right now
they're still okay. Of course, if this
drags on, you know, baby they'll have to
do something to respond. So, we just had
April Politburo meeting, pretty much a
non-event when it comes to policy
support because again, they don't really
need it at the moment. But if this drags
on longer, you know, then we're probably
going to have to do some more concerted
on the July Politburo meeting. So, right
now that's part of the reason why we
haven't changed our growth forecast
because we think there is policy space
and so far the momentum is kind of
relatively okay for now.
The you mentioned exports in China and
there's an emerging view that PPI has
picked up and they might just simply
re-export inflation back to the world.
What where are you on that?
>> Well, well, that is something we're
going to be watching, right? Because for
the longest time China was exporting
goods deflation. Now, we recently had
the kind of the release of export price
index out of China, but the data's a bit
lagged. Yeah, there's been a little bit
of pick up, but again, not very
dramatically so and again, where we're
seeing a lot of export goods prices are
especially in places where there's very
high demand like electronic products.
So, that can again filter through filter
through.
So, yeah, over time of course we're
starting to see PPI now rebound because
of the higher raw material prices. The
question is if that's going to trans
translate to final goods prices. So,
that is obviously something that that
market has to watch. Now, but I have to
say though, even though there's a bit of
upward pressure, on the flip side, you
know, it used to be in the past that
ASEAN was kind of benefiting from this
kind of production diversification,
China plus one, and that's really helped
the connector countries like Vietnam and
Thailand. But now you look at this
energy shock, it's actually hitting the
ASEAN countries, especially when it
comes to transport logistic costs, and
you know, power costs, it's hitting them
more. So, on the flip side, in a way, by
China becoming a little bit more
resilient, kind of the industrial
competitiveness might skew back to
China, and therefore the kind of the
cost efficiency of using connector
countries in this cycle may may may
excuse in their favor, on top of the
fact that obviously earlier this year
Supreme Court reversed the IEPA tariff,
so then the tariff differential
narrowed. So, there's a lot of complex
things happening, but I agree, we we do
need to be on the lookout for
pass-through of core goods inflation,
not to mention on top of energy, we also
have to watch very closely El Niño. Good
people do talk about fertilizer prices,
but then again, we also have an
increasing probability and assessment of
of El Niño, not to mention a strong El
Niño, which again is something that
could amplify food inflation, which
again, South and Southeast Asia is very
vulnerable because of the weight under
CPI basket.
On the inflation front,
um
wanted to ask also, I mean,
when it comes to exports at least, we
are looking at the likes of South Korea
and Taiwan. If you look across assets,
you are seeing perhaps a bit more of
that traditional correlation between
stocks and
currency movements, for example.
What are you expecting? Is that
something that's going to be more
entrenched going forward, especially
against the backdrop of the concerns
about capital flows?
Right. Look, I mean, at the moment, I
mean, obviously when we look at kind of
the relative performance and effects,
especially with this big adjustment,
when we have this volatility in oil, you
will see that actually it's really more
of the relative performance of kind of
the South Southeast Asia is obviously
under a little bit more pressure. Of
course, generally the region, every
time, you know, we have this risk, you
know, risk off, you know, oil rally, it
tends to kind of drive dollar strength.
But on a relative basis lately, uh you
really see a little bit more lingering
pressure. There's a bit more
differentiation because obviously some
of these capital-exporting but very
resilient AI stories
uh are relatively doing better than some
of the South, Southeast Asian. And I
think the other thing that's causing a
little bit more underperformance of some
of the South, Southeast Asian, when you
look at the countries as I mentioned,
India and Indonesia, when you're not
allowing the pass-through, actually even
Japanese yen, Japan has not really
allowed the fuel pass-through because of
the worries about inflation, it does
cause kind of persistent pressure on the
fiscal and the balance of payment.
That's why you have kind of divergence
of relative performance. But of course,
in the end, you have you know, you have
intervention levels that can continue to
provide provide a bit of a cap. Um look,
I I think obviously we know we're
watching very closely. Um look, I think
dollar C and Y continues to be a kind of
a way to anchor stability relatively. Uh
but I think where people are going to
look for pressure points are where the
vulnerabilities are. And you know, for
example, in the case of Philippines,
people are worried about growth
starting, that this is a country that
came into the shock with a current
account deficit, doesn't have a lot of
policy buffers to mitigate the scope of
the shock, that's going to have a growth
repercussion, and that's obviously going
to drive more that's going to get
reflected on FX risk premiums. And as I
said, you know, countries that continue
to you know, lean lean against the
mechanism of adjustment, it will show up
somewhere. It will show up either in an
FX risk premium or a bond risk premium.
Uh now for the others like Korea, it's a
little bit different. Yeah, they're
suppressing the pass-through to some
intervention, but you don't really have
a very negative terms of trade shock
because your exports are doing so well.
So the current account, you know, as I
said, you know, it's it's ironic.
They're net energy importers, but they
have a positive terms of trade on
semiconductors, which other countries in
the non-AI Asian space don't really
enjoy.
That sounds like a high-yield
environment moving forward. Whether
that's the risk premium being built into
the bond markets, in India's case, that
might show up in premium in the bond
markets with deals pushing higher. Korea
might be looking at good better growth.
Does that look look like almost
consistently higher yields almost across
the board?
>> Well, I I think generally we are in a
more you know, if you look at this, I
mean again, we have to see to what
extent we're having demand destruction
that's very significant if this lasts
long. But in this particular cycle, we
are still in the at the margin when you
look at the stagflation asymmetry risk,
the flation part is getting a bit more
acute pressure, and then the stag part,
I mean, we don't know when the
nonlinearities are going to show up, but
for now, it because the global financial
conditions is holding up, it seems to be
more deflation part.
>> Okay. Uh and that's why I think this
again pushes up yields at the margin.
And especially you see like the front
end yields and the pricing in I mean,
again,
to the to the credit of you know, parts
of EM, we have already seen like a
repricing
of rate hikes. But again, I I do think
the longer this lasts, the risks are
more you know, policy, more central
banks joining in, the more hawkish view
will pick up. But again, in Asia, it
varies. I mean, some countries like
Thailand, China, I mean, we're still
we're still far off from really having
any meaningful kind of hawkish bias of
central bank given where they are coming
from on the inflation side.
Joanna, thank you so much for your
insights. Great to chat. Joanna Chua is
head of Emerging Market Economics at
Citigroup Global Markets. Now, as we
were talking, we've been seeing of
course Korea, a market and economy
that's really been benefiting from AI.
And against that backdrop, we're hearing
from the CFO and how they are expecting
chip demand to remain strong despite the
war in the second quarter. They also
expect a significant increase in capex
and equipment spending, and they see the
memory supply shortage
situation continuing for a while too,
Dave.
Yeah, we'll continue to track that
obviously as we go into the session
today. I mean so far
I would say looking at reaction most
have been flagged given the lack of
reaction but but certainly a lot more of
course on deck. Just before we wrap
things up very very quickly at least in
this segment here just a look at what
we're tracking specifically in as far as
the greater Chinese markets are
concerned. I think we mentioned this PMI
data is coming out in a couple of
minutes. Watch for that very closely in
terms of data Macau
growth and also hotel occupancy numbers
are coming through. We're in the thick
of earning season Camera Conmax earnings
reaction there. Couple of more earnings
are due out today so lots more to watch
out in as far as that's concerned. Given
of course where we are with the oil
price and silently yes we are back to
the 120s on Brent. We're looking at of
course upstream players a lot more
closely. Robotaxis given of course
midday yesterday we had the reporting of
course on the pause on robotaxis so
we'll see whether or not we do get
further reaction today. And of course
going into the session it's it's it's
the last one of course of the week with
most markets in the region shut from
tomorrow so we'll see what the last
tomorrow the the phrase from J Powell
the last dance going to be before we go
into this very this very long weekend.
PetroChina on your screens some of the
oil plays there upstream on your screens
and also going through the big banks Ag
Bank ICBC BOC and Bank of China coming
through as well.
Not consistent there in as far as the
early goings are concerned. Right so
we're looking at futures right now let's
please bring that up if we can. Last we
checked at the downside on some of these
contracts
going into the session today. There we
go down about 4/10 of 1% 26,000 on the
Hang Seng index [music]
and yes we are also going to get the PMI
numbers coming through as mentioned in
about 3 minutes or so. Stay tuned for
that and the open. Lots more ahead. This
is the China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. [music] We are back,
although it doesn't feel like we went
away
completely. Almost like
heartache, right? The one that got away.
That that pain doesn't really go away
completely. Anyway, sorry. I'm getting
It's It's getting a bit deep here.
Anyway, okay, let's focus on markets.
Why not? Okay, deep liquidity, that's
the bridge there. Abundant liquidity
[music] has so far offset some of the
macro issues out there. And we have
heard, of course, the macro issues in
the central bank front. We're done with
the Fed, we're done with the BOJ. Lots
more coming [music] through as far as
Europe goes. And of course, we're going
to think of earning season as well. Lots
to watch out for, April.
Yeah, take a look [music] at where we
are setting up for the start of the
session against the backdrop of earnings
reads, right? We got Cab Recon, [music]
for example. AI hardware has been doing
well. We are seeing how revenues have
been supported, and that is playing out
in the stock reaction you're seeing on
the mainland now. And you're actually
seeing a bit
higher on the CSI 300 for the early
goings. Of course, we're also going to
be unpacking some of these other
numbers, including from the big banks.
And take a look at how we're faring on
Hang Seng Tech. We are, of course,
watching out for weather for the board.
We see that continued uh
underperformance. That's been the drag.
That uh reversal just a day ago was very
temporary. You're still seeing these
Chinese tech consumer names sitting
under pressure. And of course, one of
the sectors we've been watching,
robotaxis, right? Because of the pause
in the issuance of new permits. So, some
of the names that we're watching uh in
the session, including Pony.ai,
Baidu, WeRide as well. And then as I
said, China banks, the state-owned
enterprises this earning season, they've
really been doing well. Uh first quarter
profits, I think that was a record for
PetroChina.
Following on from what we got from
Sinopec as well, the banks also showing
those mega profits. But Dave, we have
data as well now.
We do, yes. This is the April PMI
numbers. Let me get started with the PMI
on manufacturing. So, we have a beat
there, 50.3, slightly above the median.
Non-manufacturing,
slight miss there, 49.4. So, in
contraction.
Uh went into contraction because the
previous month was above 50. 49.8 was
the estimate on non-manufacturing. And
composite coming in also above 50,
right? In a couple of minutes, uh what
are we doing? About 14, 13 minutes from
now, we have the rating dog numbers are
coming through as well, where the the
estimate for that one, just for context,
is 51. And once that breaks, of course,
we will bring that to you uh
immediately. Right. Uh April, uh what
are we doing as far as Samsung goes?
Well, take a look at how the stock is
varying. It is uh outperformance that
seems to be petering out a little bit.
You're pulling a bit softer. But let's
not forget here, you know, we saw a
48-fold jump um in terms of its profit
as the AI reliance on memory chips has
been delivering hefty margins. Let's
talk further with our Asia equities
reporter Sangmi Cha. So, Sangmi, we've
been hearing a bit more from the call,
the CFO, talking about how memory chip
demand, the shortage, is likely to
persist. Talk to us about what's going
to be fueling Samsung going forward.
Yeah, so we have seen that 36 billion
dollars in its operating income for the
first quarter. And this is the chip
division in Samsung that competes with
SK Hynix and the US Micron technology.
And we see these results, and that
really reflects that massive spending
from these hyperscalers, Meta and
Amazon, spending hundreds of billions of
dollars on AI infrastructure. And it
really AI infrastructure has been that
bottleneck there, especially the memory
chip space, because you know, you need
all these DRAMs, and also the HBM4,
where Samsung is now spearheading. You
know, you need all of these to actually
boost the AI accelerators, like the
likes of the Nvidia. So, you really need
to have these memory. And it's really
fueling that kind of shift in sentiment,
you know, from the boom and bust cycle
these memory chips were always in, into
something that is more structural,
something that is, you know, a super
cycle that we're in right now. And
that's actually resulted in that share
price of what we're looking at over 90%
gains for Samsung shares this year
alone. And don't forget we already the
the stock actually doubled in 2025. So,
it really goes back to, you know, all
this hardware space. The action in Asia
is all in the hardware. We we we see the
same
rallies in some of the MLCC makers and
the substrates makers. All of these nuts
and bolts that make this AI
infrastructure together. What about the
the counterargument where the capex
spend can't be sustained? Yeah, so when
you look at Samsung, there is that
concentration risk, right? It's roughly
25% of KOSPI, you know, the entire
Korean benchmark. So, people do worry
about that crowded trade. But again,
analysts are saying that, you know,
that this company will keep building on
this record-breaking profit, the chip
division. And you can actually see that
in data. You see the first 20 days of
April, you see the chip exports in Korea
has
surged 180%.
So, that just shows that momentum in SK
Hynix and in Samsung just exporting
these chips in in a record kind of
manner. But you also see that you know,
the valuation here is really striking.
And I think you were the one who
actually sent this email saying, "Look
at this." Like Samsung is now traded
>> How did you get that? cheaper price than
ICBC, which is the biggest bank in
China. We're looking at 5.7, 5.8 bank in
China. We're looking at 5.7, 5.8 times
forward earnings. So, that really tells
you that there is that huge bifurcation
between Samsung's earnings that's keep
that keeps getting upgrades. But at the
same time, it's just a trade at a such a
fraction of what other chip makers or
other tech companies are traded at. So
again, if we go back to this super cycle
thesis,
many say that if these quarters do
continue and just like Samsung have
promised, if they move towards that
multi-year contracts and because the
DRAMs and all these memory chips, the
average selling prices keeps
surging because of that shortage,
then maybe the valuation would get
better and find its better value, right?
Yeah.
Sammy,
so we've been focused on SK Hynix and
Samsung. What about the rest of the
South Korean markets? I mean, the
concentration risk is there. Are we
seeing it kind of broadening out in any
way?
Yeah, so uh my talks to the traders say
that really the artificial intelligence
um trade is back. You know, we have been
talking about the pre-war theme coming
back. And of course all these actions
are uh really crowded and you can see
those actions in Korea specifically.
Yesterday yesterday for instance uh the
uh the staff from Nvidia also the
daughter of Jensen Huang actually met
with some of these officials in Korea.
Uh Samsung and SK Hynix but also Doosan
Robotics for instance uh to actually
collaborate on uh some of the physical
AI uh investments. So, all these
actually has
uh these uh spreading out the broadening
out that we are seeing here. But of
course the action again again scatters
down to these um smaller supply chain
that I just mentioned. You know, when it
was the great um explanation there. When
we think about a dining table that is
the PCB the printed circuit board. And
on top you would have the semi
substrates which is a plate and on on
top of that is the food which is the
chips. So, all these small silverware
and plates are actually the shares that
are seeing so much of uh surge. Uh
you're looking at even in Japan Murata
and Ibiden they have surged uh so much
this year. And you see Samsung
Electro-Mechanics
um this is the company that makes these
substrates and the MLCCs. They have
surged very rapidly all due to the AI
boom.
So, Amy, thank you so much. Great
analogy there. Amy Chang there our Asia
equities reporter. Sounds like a fancy
dinner April, huh? Table table top, good
plates, cutlery. Uh
as we both know, right? In Southeast
Asia, right? We makan with our hands and
on banana leaves, right? That's of
course an overstatement. All right.
Um okay, how do I get myself back here?
Cambricon, okay. The speaking of tech.
So, interesting set of numbers. Market
is reacting very positively to the
results coming through as well. So,
revenue was up by more than double. Net
income was up by about 3x.
R&D is up 20% and EPS up over 3x. So,
the company's delivering, April. And I
think Morgan Stanley's come out with a
take here.
Yeah, we are seeing how they're looking
at Cambricon in a very positive way.
They think that the results were
impressive. And certainly, if you're
seeing the market reaction, you're just
adding on from what we saw at the open.
And of course, this is a company, it's
worth highlighting, that's been
benefiting from this push for
self-sufficiency in China and competing
with the likes of Nvidia and AMD to some
extent as well. We are also expecting
Cambricon from Bloomberg reporting to
more than triple its AI chip output this
year. You have already been seeing
Cambricon shares in Shanghai
more than doubling in the past 12
months, David.
Yeah, okay. Something to track, of
course,
as we look at this these domestic
hardware plays, which by the way, based
many of the analysts we've spoken to
recently here on shows,
overwhelmingly
bullish on this specific niche pocket of
the A-share market. Right, staying on
tech, staying on earnings here. US big
tech, of course, lots have come through
as well. US futures, as you can see on
your screens, moving towards the upside
there. And yes, April, really the big
tech stocks coming under scrutiny here.
Yeah, we are watching the continued
reaction in the Mag 7s. Meta, suddenly
the outlier in the after hours, as
investors didn't really like the lack of
a payoff and its high capex. Uh
There's a lot of scrutiny for this high
AI spending and delivering sort of mixed
results. So, we saw Meta shares sliding
in late trade given the higher spending
outlook that's revived concerns that
this massive AI push won't pay off. But,
we also got Alphabet reporting high
demand for its cloud, its AI offerings.
So, that's boosting shares. Bloomberg
Tech co-anchor Ed Ludlow has more from
San Francisco.
Meta, Amazon, Microsoft, Google, all of
their earnings hitting in a 71-second
window after the market closed. But,
they're all kind of pointing to the same
thing. As they see it, AI demand is
robust and it's running ahead of
capacity, ahead of their ability to
supply. If you start with the cloud
computing providers, AWS growth 28%,
Google Cloud growth 63%, Microsoft Azure
growth 39 to 40%. Strong numbers the
street debated them and then it quickly
became about capital expenditures.
Microsoft now guiding to spending of
around $190 billion in 2026. Alphabet
planning spending of 180 to 190 billion
dollars. Meta raising its capex guide to
a range of 125 to 145 billion dollars.
And in the quarter gone, Amazon was said
less about spending, did 43 billion
dollars in just that quarter, and that's
mostly on AWS and generative AI. So,
that's the story. There's a lot of
demand and they are trying to justify
the spend to put the pieces in place to
meet that demand. In Meta's case, you
know, there was more skepticism about
the sales outlook. They're not a cloud
computing provider. The core ads
business is still in question. And what
Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO, talked about
on the call was them using their latest
AI models to improve that that core ads
uh business. There's also some macro
impacts, geopolitical and otherwise, um
to to user account um and to to the ads
themselves. But overall, the story is
pretty clear. AI demand is real and
accelerating, as the companies would put
it, and the race is basically now for
who can build enough in terms of
infrastructure fast enough to keep up.
This is Ed Ludlow for Bloomberg News in
San Francisco. [music]
All right, looking back. [music] Um
yeah, in case you missed that, front and
Brent
touching 120
uh in the overnight session. We're at
119.80, which is really academic,
really. Uh but yes, uh this consistent,
quiet
Yeah, but very sustained climb uh to the
current levels is really playing out
across the FX markets. And the news is
certainly is April uh
very supportive of higher oil prices, at
least for now.
Yeah, because it sounds like this
blockade will continue with Trump
telling Axios that he'll not lift a
naval blockade off Iranian ports until
he secures a deal with Tehran to address
the country's nuclear program. And he'd
earlier said that he rejected a recent
proposal from Iran to reopen the Strait
of Hormuz. For more on that, let's bring
in Bloomberg politics editor Laura
Davison in Sydney. So, Laura, the red
lines seem to be shifting a little. Now,
we're hearing that, you know, until the
nuclear issue is resolved, we won't see
a reopening, a ending of the blockade.
What's the state of play?
So, we've had this pattern really now
for 2 months where the pendulum swings
uh close to a deal, and there's there's
lots of optimism, and then away and
where things seem completely stuck.
We're at the far end of that spectrum
right now, where things are sort of as
far away from some sort of lasting peace
deal as we've ever seen.
Um you know, where this is standing is,
you know, Iran earlier this week put out
a an offer that would really focus
negotiations on the Strait of Hormuz,
essentially Iran opening up the strait
in exchange for the US ending that naval
blockade. Uh, Trump rejected that offer
after a couple days of of really
weighing it. Um, and now there's there's
more talk on the US side and in the
Pentagon about potentially some sort of,
you know, targeted limited strikes to
sort of move along these negotiations.
You know, there's you know, discussions
about you know, some sort of surgical
strikes within the country. You know,
Trump has also talked with uh, Bibi
Netanyahu over in Israel about, you
know, sort of wanting uh,
Iran to Israel rather to potentially
you know, look at surgical strikes there
versus you know, some sort of larger
scale
endeavor. Um, there's also talks in the
Pentagon about using a a new hypersonic
weapon that has not yet been deployed,
but this would allow them to do you
know, really long-range attacks. So,
lots of discussions, no decisions have
been made on this front. Trump has been
very skeptical about restarting the
military front of this war, but as these
negotiations dry out, all these kind of
options are are being considered.
Laura, are we any closer to a reopening
of the Strait of Hormuz than we were 3
weeks ago?
It does not seem like that. In fact, we
could be potentially even even further
away. There you know, are are certain
discussions that are happening. You
know, the the US is prompting allies to
put together this coalition of the
willing to help open up the strait.
There have been other separate talks
that haven't involved the US, um, US
allies in Europe and in Asia elsewhere
about you know, what they're what kind
of efforts could be here. But we're
really at a sort of a moment and that's
sort of being reflected in the crude oil
price sort of shifting up over the past
week or two here.
Um, that there's not a lot of optimism
that there's that there's some sort of
deal coming together. Um, I'll note
things in this in these kinds of talks
always seem darkest before the dawn and
that everyone gets really entrenched and
says no, no, no. And then sometimes
these things can come together quickly.
That's not been the pattern we've seen
yet with some of these Iran talks, but
this is you know, always a potential and
that there's a there's a key piece that
gets unlocked and then things can fall
into together into place um quite
quickly.
Laura, thank you so much. That was
Bloomberg's politics editor Laura
Davison in Sydney. Now, we've also been
tracking data coming out of China. We
brought you the official PMIs earlier.
Manufacturing was a beat.
Non-manufacturing was a bit of a miss.
Now, we're getting the private survey,
the rating dark numbers for April.
Manufacturing, you're seeing it coming
in a lot better than estimates. 52.2
is the number as we continue tracking,
of course, the
outlook for the Chinese yuan given the
bounce that we've seen in the dollar
overnight. Of course, does this sort of
derail the yuan appreciation that we've
been seeing, Dave?
Yeah, I mean, would it
is is I think a key question. And I
think the the point that Johanna Chua
was making earlier was exactly what you
just you just made there. We have to
really wait and see how this shows up in
the data, particularly when it comes to
some of the EM economies like China, of
course, is perhaps in the middle of that
conversation. But, some of the EM
economies that have
you know, artificially sitting or
suppressing the impact of higher oil
prices.
One extreme is really the Philippines,
which is really a part outside of
Myanmar, what Johanna said was this is
really a country that's really seen the
biggest increase in gas prices. Hence,
we are coming off the all-time lows.
We're stronger on the currency. I wonder
if there's anything happening
>> [snorts]
>> idiosyncratic there to the Philippines.
Won't be surprised. Anyway, let's bring
in David Finergy to talk us through all
things effects, our effects and rate
strategies out of Sydney.
So,
David, so the two things, right? We are
sandwiched between the Fed hawkish hold,
and we're coming up against this wall of
European Central Bank decisions over
that part of the world. The dollar seems
to be losing its momentum, but that
could could that be temporary though?
Yeah, I think it could be temporary. I
think the key thing to of multiple
things to watch out. One is does oil
push higher if it's been obviously a
correlation between oil and dollar
performance. You mentioned you've got
the central banks ECB and BOE today. How
hawkish do they sound? But let's also
forget we also have some US data coming
out. We have core PC which is very
important for the Federal Reserve and
its policy making. And you also have US
growth data and you have you have legal
Fed pricing. There is this debate in
terms of okay, well we know that oil is
inflationary, but we also know waste in
the economy. So there's a tug of war
going on on the rate side and the
question is well would today will go
well how is that growth in the first
quarter? How is it shaping up? If it
comes out quite good then you go well
actually maybe it's the inflation fears
that are more grounded should we say and
that could lead to obviously higher
rates and expectations for a potential
Fed hike later this year. Even though
the Governor Waller's coming in, we know
he's more of a dove side. Still the
market will go will front run things if
the data gives it room to. So at the
moment I do think at the moment the
dollar side of the equation suddenly
dominates everything and the risks at
the moment are skewed suddenly in the
near term with oil being elevated
towards at least dollar holding on to
its gains if not drifting higher.
Uh David
was just talking earlier about the peso
maybe we're seeing a bit of intervention
from authorities in some ways. What are
the intervention risk for the Japanese
yen? How do you think Japanese
authorities are thinking about the
currency?
Well certainly you've had Mr. Finance
Kanda. She's continually warned us like
every seems like every day there's
warning that prospective moves and bold
action will be taken. Of course
nothing's actually happened yet and the
market's well aware of that. So a
classic case of action speak louder than
words. I think the market sentiment is
look, if a dollar yen grind higher a
very slow pace, then maybe intervention
is more around that say the 162 area,
which is the recent high back in July 24
is 161.95. So, I think as we approach
that area basically above 161, the
market will be a bit alert. But, I think
what's very interesting is, you know,
the dollar yen briefly went 160.47,
which was the highest since July and we
haven't really heard anything out of
Katiana today. So, the market's going,
"Oh, okay. That's sort of a green
light." Cuz you have been, you know,
frequently saying warn us of the moves.
So, I think the sentiment is let's see
what that data again is today on the
dollar side of the equation. But,
remember it's a dollar side of the move,
so it's not just the yen that's
weakening. So, even if the MOF was to
come and say, "Well, we're going to
intervene." The currency you're fighting
against is wall of dollar buying. So,
any intervention may have a limited uh
reaction, shall we say? So, I think at
the moment it's really the market's
going, "If you give us the room, i.e.
with the dollar that data, then we will
push it higher."
David, thank you so much. Our Bloomberg
FX and rates strategist David Finnerty.
Now, let's check as well on Hong Kong
China markets, how they're doing as we
go to break as we see perhaps [music] a
bit of underperformance when it comes to
the Hang Seng tech. A reversal from
yesterday's [music] very brief rebound.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. The [music] stock price
today might not reflect it, but really
all you have to do is
take a step back, even just by a week,
but you know, over the last year will
really tell you that story. Uh Samsung,
this is one for Samsung bullets. A line
coming through out of these earnings
called that [music] memory
supply demand gap could widen further
in 2027. [music]
We'll have lots more on the tech story
coming up in the next hour of the China
show.
Welcome back to the China [music] show.
Here's a look at the Hang Seng half hour
into the session. We are pulling
slightly away from the session lows, but
you're still 6/10 down, and you're
seeing tech really the drag. Baba,
Tencent, Xiaomi even. Those are the
stocks that are pulling the index under.
The outliers are the insurers today,
interestingly enough. Some of it is
earnings related, of course. But what
are we seeing in the broader markets
today, Dave?
Well, it's higher yields, right? In
fact, the
everything for I think overnight already
we did see a quite a big meaningful jump
in in in in the G10 space, and I think
continued right now. And I think we do
have an auction coming through in Japan,
which we'll get to in a moment. But yes,
I mean, higher yields, premiums, risk
premiums coming back, that's that's a
question mark. Um but yeah, I mean,
concerns over again, we've been here
before, right? Sustainability and the
capex spend and the EI story. Uh so,
we're down to the Nikkei. It's also
worth pointing out, of course, cash
markets are reopening today in Japan.
They remain open tomorrow, but then the
rest of Asia goes offline. So, there is
that dynamic of
um let's head into the weekend early. Uh
Samsung is up now. It's been hovering in
and around these levels for the most
part of the morning. We're still
continuing to track what's happening
and what's being said in that earnings
call that I believe is still taking
place.
Um so just in terms of let me just bring
up some screens right now just to get my
across the latest on that. They did give
some guidance though on their ability to
meet demand. So a couple of things uh
we're looking at HBM4
supply volume to scale meaningfully into
the second half of this year. Uh they're
also talking about how the supply demand
gap could widen even further uh in 2027
and you know this sort of secondary
derivative effect of the war uh and what
that could do with the transport costs,
higher oil prices raising the risk of
higher uh shipping costs on top of
course of already people paying a lot
more for memory than they were uh 12
months ago. Um have a look at where we
are FX markets. So the strong dollar
story is somewhat
losing some momentum as I speak, but
it's certainly been quite strong to the
upside recently. Hence we have a 160
handle on dollar yen. In fact
um overnight in case you missed it,
weakest since 2024 on the exchange rate
on on the yen itself. We are also seeing
some strength in the Philippine peso um
quite a bit in fact a quarter of 1%
after hitting successive days of record
lows
uh on that. Uh we talked about bonds.
Here we go. US 10, your 10's coming up
on your screens and bond futures too. Uh
and yes, yields would be pushing higher
uh in the bond space if it were trading
right now in cash markets. There we go.
Bonds are lower ahead of of course the
ECB and coming up against the Bank of
England um as well. April.
Yeah, 6-7 basis point move in Australia
as well. Of course, this is following on
from what we saw in treasuries, right?
And we heard from Fed Chair Jay Powell
earlier on how he thinks rates are in a
good place with no strong case for
further tightening.
We think our policy rate is in a good
place. People are not saying we need to
hike now. I don't think there's a much
of a case for any case really for the
for
policy looking, you know, meaningfully
restrictive, maybe mildly restrictive or
neutral. I will continue to serve as a
governor for a period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor. There's only ever one chair
[clears throat] of the Federal Reserve
Board. When Kevin Warsh is confirmed and
sworn in, he will be that chair. The
things that have happened in really in
the last 3 months of
I think left me no choice but to stay. I
am confident as I said in my remarks
that the Fed will continue to make its
decision based on analysis, rigorous
analysis, and not on political
considerations, but we've had to fight
for it.
Yeah, there we go. Hawkish hold, three
dissenters.
And are we very Are we at neutral? I
think it's is the question. And are we
done basically with with just very very
simply in simple language? Are we done
with the easing cycle
as far as the Fed is concerned? David
Faber is with us right now, RM Live
Strategist.
I mean, not just higher yields,
substantially higher yields we woke up
to this morning. Yeah, exactly. I think
the US two-year Treasury yield jumped
the most on a Fed decision day since
2022.
You know, we saw higher yields really
across the curve, but the front end
really took most of the pain. And that's
really in reaction to to what we just
heard from
uh Chair Powell there. One being that
he's going to stay on as Fed governor,
and the other being that we had three
regional bank presidents
dissent to the easing bias language in
their post
post-meeting statement.
>> Yeah. And and both of that's important
because I think some of the expectations
still coming into that meeting that we
had
for the potential of rate cuts in the
back half of 2026
was that, you know,
the new chair would come in, Kevin
Warsh, and that he would be and words be
able to impose a a regime change. Uh
that's really where some of this easing
bias was predicated on.
Um that looks to be more challenging for
one, that you have already
Fed governors that are concerned about
uh the potential of higher inflation.
And then of course the macro backdrop as
well, that we're we're seeing crude
prices trend higher, energy prices trend
higher, and obviously that'll feed
through to higher inflation.
David, with the massive repricing as you
highlight in the front end, should we be
expecting some cross-asset implication
on stocks for example? I mean we've
gotten over the mag seven hump this
week. What's next?
Yeah, I I think that's really the
question because I mean if we look just
here in Asia,
clearly Asian equities are being pulled
in opposite directions by two, you know,
central themes, central forces. One
being that the AI capex cycle is very
much still intact. We saw that with some
of the guidance from from the mag seven
that we heard
um
you know, just just today.
Uh and the other side being that energy
prices are trending higher. The Strait
of Hormuz remains essentially closed.
Uh and so we're now seeing crude futures
really start to break out. Uh and that's
pulling treasury yields higher. So
we're really starting to see that
divergence within benchmarks here in
Asia and around the world where
uh stocks that are exposed to this capex
cycle uh continue to to outperform
um because they're meeting their their
lofty earnings expectations and guiding
higher. Elsewhere, if we look at
consumer names or or elsewhere in the
benchmark,
uh they're continuing to take the pain
of of, you know, this
uh geopolitical issue and energy prices
continuing to trend higher. So I I think
that trend uh continues for for the for
you know, for the future for now. Yeah,
that's a good point because the last
time you were at about 120 in oil,
everything, you know, dispersion
collapsed, everything else. I think it
started at the war and even AI got taken
down with it. And then we all know, of
course, that was very short-lived for
AI. Um,
can we expect that to remain the case?
In other words, yes, like if you're
sitting on a portfolio of AI, can you
largely ignore oil at 120, even 130?
Yeah, I I I think the difference now
versus in March is that that time the
risk was unbounded in a sense, right? We
had the conflict ongoing in in a kinetic
form, and you had, you know, really at
that point markets having to price in
much more adverse scenarios that right
now are are not necessarily been priced
in, right? The idea that there would be
more infrastructure damage within the
region, that neither party was signaling
that they were willing to uh come to the
negotiating table. I think at this stage
the market's still taking a lot of the
headlines we're getting as negotiating
posture. And so, again, in that sense,
even though higher crude prices are are
punishing for a lot of parts of the
market, for tech stocks, it's it's one
factor among many.
David,
to your point about maybe a little bit
of shrugging off the headlines as they
come,
it's fair to say though that this month,
the past month, it's been very different
from prior seasons. Talk to us about the
seasonality. Can we still sell in May?
I I mean, I I think uh
I'm not sure how much that that's
driving uh you know, the price action
we're seeing in in equity markets. I
think, again, the macro factor is
driving
uh as it pertains to accelerating
inflation uh is certainly a factor for
uh some of the more cyclical stocks
outside of the tech theme. Um Um, then
earnings is is certainly a factor that's
driving. I mean,
whether the the debate we're having in
the US about whether higher capex from
from the hyperscalers is prudent uh is
is one question for those stocks, but
for the net beneficiaries we have here
in Asia in terms of the hardware
players, uh it's it's obviously net
positive. Uh so, you know, that's really
what's driving um some of the price
action we're seeing. And so, for the
time being, you know, technology stocks,
you know, seem to to continue to trend
higher. Um, but as long as energy prices
and inflation continue to to compound uh
elsewhere in the benchmark is going to
continue to come under pressure.
All right, uh David Savage, thank you so
much. MNI strategist there. Thank you
for giving us context. So, that's really
a good That's actually a good as a side
note, right? Uh what was that? Unbound
and kinetic on the war. It's a good High
Rock shirt, right? Um anyway. Um for
High Rocks.
No, actually they don't wear shirts. Um
anyway. Okay, uh Philippine peso in
focus right now. Month ahead forecast
coming through out of the Banco Central.
And you you're not going to like this
one. So, we went from low threes to a
4.8 actual, and the guidance now is we
could get a higher fives or lower sixes
on inflation coming through. And you
understand why the peso is where it is
uh as you look, of course, at where we
are in as far as inflation is concerned,
right? Four handle on inflation, a six
handle takes you back to maybe about
2023 2022. And I think uh the point that
uh the governor of the Central Bank made
when we spoke with him
uh about a week and a half back is that
they I think what he signaled
specifically, not what he said
explicitly,
was that the Central Bank does intend to
move in ones, um and that they are
prepared It's not ready already to do
more to tackle this inflation story
that's coming through in the form of
higher uh energy prices. That's showing
up in the currency, and it's showing up
in EM bond markets and spreads widening.
Uh in fact just on this very note, uh
let's bring in Marcus Wong with a
perfect segue into him, uh rates and
emerging markets macro strategist.
Marcus, thank you for joining us. I
mean, fantastic piece. We're coming off
post-Fed, fairly hawkish. Brent is still
acting up, and Asian FX is really taking
it on the chin. How are we How should we
be looking at the prospects for Asian FX
now?
Well, I mean, it's interesting to say
that it's quite a double whammy uh for
Asian currencies. I mean, they've always
they were a bit bit underwater since the
start of the Iran war. Asia being you
know at the forefront of you know
vulnerability to oil prices. So,
yesterday's, you know, announcement from
the Fed uh with a hawkish bent to it, uh
definitely is a is a you know it's a
double whammy in a sense. I think it's
interesting to look, you know, if you
look at the performance of currencies
today, and the ringgit is actually
lagging uh most currencies in Asia. And
one would think that normally in in a
scenario where oil prices are elevated,
uh ringgit would be you know a
beneficiary as a as a a net net oil
exporter. But this just goes to show,
you know, that the impact of Fed is
trickling through. Uh there's probably
maybe some unwinding positions, but the
ringgit is actually lagging uh in
despite the rise in oil prices. Um and
the prospects for Well, the prospects
have actually um Asian currencies have
actually diverged, you know. Uh you
clearly mentioned, you know, peso
sitting up today. Uh well,
interestingly, you know, despite the
fact despite what we saw in oil prices
and I know
um the Fed overnight, um could it be
support from the central bank? We have
to wait for a statement from them. But I
think in the outlook for a lot of
investors out there, it's essentially,
you know, for the net oil importers like
the baht, the peso,
uh the rupee, uh these will continue to
be weighed down by higher oil prices.
But if you look at the their North Asian
counterparts, you know, like the won as
well as Taiwan dollar, the won is
actually selling up today, uh despite,
you know, it being a serious heavy net
oil importer. And a lot of analysts are
pointing to the fact that they are a
beneficiary of the, you know, AI boom
that we are seeing. And you know, the
results that we saw overnight uh from
the some of the fan stocks definitely
support this this narrative.
So essentially for North Asia, although
they are heavy net oil importers,
you know, people expect their current
account surplus to be boosted by the AI
theme. So in a sense we're going to see
this
dual narrative to divergence between the
North Asian currencies as well.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to [music] the China show.
Here's a look at the Hang Seng half hour
into the session. We are pulling
slightly away from the session lows, but
you're still 6/10 down and you're seeing
tech really the drag. Baba, Tencent,
Xiaomi even. Those are the stocks that
are pulling the index under. The
outliers are the insurers today
interestingly enough. Some of it is
earnings related of course. But what are
we seeing in the broader markets today,
Dave?
Well, it's higher yields, right? In
fact, the
everything I think overnight already we
did see a quite a big meaningful jump in
in in in the G10 space and I think
continued right now. And I think we do
have an auction coming through in Japan
which we'll get to in a moment. But yes,
I mean higher yields, premiums, risk
premiums coming back. That's that's a
question mark. But yeah, I mean concerns
over again, we've been here before,
right? Sustainability and the capex and
the AI story.
So we're down in the Nikkei. It's also
worth pointing out of course cash
markets are reopening today in Japan.
They remain open tomorrow, but then the
rest of Asia goes offline. So there is
that dynamic of
let's head into the weekend early.
Samsung is up now. It's been hovering in
and around these levels for the most
part of the morning. We're still
continuing to track what's happening and
what's being said in that earnings call
that I believe is still taking place.
So just in terms of let me just bring up
some screens right now just to get my
across the latest on that. They did give
some guidance though on their ability to
meet demand. So, a couple of things
we're looking at HBM4
supply volume to scale meaningfully into
the second half of this year.
They're also talking about how the
supply demand gap could widen even
further
in 2027 and you know, this sort of
second derivative effect of the war and
what that could do with the transport
costs, higher oil prices raising
[snorts] the risk of higher
shipping costs on top of course of
already people paying a lot more for
memory than they were 12 months ago.
Have a look at where we are FX markets
and the strong dollar story is somewhat
losing some momentum as I speak, but
it's certainly been quite strong to the
upside recently. Hence, we have a 160
handle on dollar yen. In fact, just
overnight in case you missed it, weakest
since 2024 on the exchange rate on on
the yen itself. We are also seeing some
strength in the Philippine peso.
Quite a bit in fact, a quarter of 1%
after hitting successive days of record
lows
on that. We talked about bonds. Here we
go, US 10, your 10's coming up on your
screens and bond futures, too.
And yes, yields would be pushing higher
in the bond space if it were trading
right now in cash markets. There we go,
bonds are lower ahead of of course the
ECB and coming up against the Bank of
England
as well. April.
Yeah, 67 basis point move in Australia
as well. Of course, this is following on
from what we saw in treasuries, right?
And we heard from Fed chair Jay Powell
earlier on how he thinks rates are in a
good place with no strong case for
further tightening.
We think our policy rate is in a good
place. People are not saying we need to
hike now. I don't think there's a much
of a case for any case really for the
for
policy looking, you know, meaningfully
restrictive, maybe mildly restrictive or
neutral. I will continue to serve as a
governor for a period of time
to be determined.
I plan to keep a low profile as a
governor.
There's only ever one [clears throat]
chair of the Federal Reserve Board. When
Kevin Warsh is confirmed and sworn in,
he will be that chair. The things that
have happened in the really in the last
3 months of of I think left me no choice
but to stay. I am confident, as I said
in my remarks, that the Fed will
continue to make its decision based on
analysis, rigorous analysis, and not on
political considerations, but we've had
to fight for it.
Yeah, there we go. Hawkish hold, three
dissenters.
And are we very are we at neutral, I
think is the is the question. And are we
done basically with with uh just very
very simply in simple language, are we
done with the easing cycle
as far as the Fed is concerned? David
Savage is with us right now, our MLIV
strategist. Uh I mean, not just higher
yields, substantially higher yields we
woke up to this morning. Yeah, exactly.
I think the US 2-year Treasury yield
jumped the most on a Fed decision day
since 2022. Yeah. Uh
you know, we saw higher yields really
across the curve, but the the front end
really took most of the pain. And that's
really in the reaction to to what we
just heard from uh
uh Chair Powell. There one being that
he's going to stay on as Fed governor,
and the other being that we had uh three
regional bank presidents
uh dissent to the easing bias language
in the post uh post-meeting statement.
>> Yeah. And and both of that's important
because I think some of the expectations
still coming into that meeting that we
had uh for the potential of rate cuts in
the back half of 2026
was that, you know,
uh the new chair would come in, uh Kevin
Warsh, and that he would be in his words
be able to impose a regime change. Uh
that's really where some of this easing
bias was predicated on. Um that looks to
be more challenging for one, that you
have already um Fed governors that are
concerned about uh the potential of
higher inflation and then of course the
macro backdrop as well that we're we're
seeing crude prices trend higher, energy
prices trend higher, and obviously
that'll feed through to higher
inflation.
David, with the massive repricing as you
highlight in the front end, should we be
expecting some cross asset implication
on stocks for example? I mean, we've
gotten over the mag seven hump this
week. What's next?
Yeah, I I think that's really the
question because I mean if we look just
here in Asia,
clearly Asian equities are being pulled
in opposite directions by two, you know,
central themes, central forces. One
being that the AI capex cycle is very
much still intact. We saw that with some
of the guidance from from the mag seven
that we heard um
you know, just just today
and the other side being that energy
prices are trending higher. The straight
up for moves remains essentially closed
and so we're now seeing crude futures
really start to break out and that's
pulling treasury yields higher. So,
we're really starting to see that
divergence within benchmarks here in
Asia and around the world where
stocks that are exposed to this capex
cycle
continue to to outperform
because they're meeting their their
lofty earnings expectations and guiding
higher. Elsewhere, if we look at
consumer names or or elsewhere in the
benchmark,
they're continuing to take the pain of
of you know, this
geopolitical issue and energy prices
continuing to trend higher. So, I I I
think that trend continues for for the
for you know, for the future for now.
Yeah, that's a good point because the
last time we were at about 120 on oil,
everything, you know, dispersion
collapsed, everything else. I think it
started the war and even AI got taken
down with it and then we all know of
course that was very short-lived for AI.
Um
can we expect that to remain the case?
In other words, yes, like if you're
sitting on a portfolio of AI, can you
largely ignore oil at 120, even 130?
Yeah. I I I think the difference now
versus in March is at that time the risk
was unbounded in a sense, right? We had
the conflict ongoing in in a kinetic
form, and you had, you know, really at
that point markets having to price in
much more adverse scenarios that right
now are are not necessarily been priced
in, right? The idea that there would be
more infrastructure damage within the
region, that neither party was signaling
that they were willing to uh come to the
negotiating table. at this stage the
market's still taking a lot of the
headlines we're getting as negotiating
posture. And so, again, in that sense,
even though higher crude prices are are
punishing for a lot of parts of the
market, for tech stocks it's it's one
factor among many.
David,
to your point about maybe a little bit
of shrugging off the headlines as they
come,
it's fair to say though that this month,
the past month, it's been very different
from prior seasons. Talk to us about the
seasonality. Can we still sell in May?
I I mean, I I think
I'm not sure how much that that's
driving
you know, the price action we're seeing
in in equity markets. I think, again,
the macro factor is driving
as it pertains to accelerating inflation
is certainly
a factor for
some of the more cyclical stocks outside
of the tech theme.
And then earnings is is certainly a
factor that's driving. I mean,
whether the the debate we're having in
the US about whether higher CapEx from
from the hyperscalers is prudent
is is one question for those stocks, but
for the net beneficiaries we have here
in Asia in terms of the the hardware
players,
it's it's obviously net positive.
So, you know, that's really what's
driving
some of the price action we're seeing.
And so, for the time being, you know,
technology stocks, you know, seem to
continue to trend higher.
But, as long as energy prices and
inflation continue to to compound
elsewhere in the benchmark is going to
continue to come under pressure.
All right. David Savage, thank you so
much. Our analyst strategist there.
Thank you for giving us context. That's
really a good That's actually a good as
a side note, right? What was that?
Unbound and kinetic on the war. It's
good Hyrox shirt, right? Anyway. For
Hyrox.
No, actually they don't wear shirts.
Anyway. Okay. Philippine peso in focus
right now. Month ahead forecast coming
through
out of the Banco Central. And you not
going to like this one. So, we went from
low threes to 4.8 actual. And the
guidance now is we could get a higher
fives or lower sixes
on inflation coming through. And you
understand why the peso is where it is
as you look of course at where we are in
as far as inflation is concerned, right?
Four handle on inflation. A six handle
takes you back to maybe about 2023
2022. And I think the point that
the governor of the central bank made
when we spoke with him
about a week and a half back is that
they I think what he signaled
specifically know what he said
explicitly
was that the central bank doesn't tend
to move in ones
and that they are prepared if not ready
already to do more to tackle this
inflation story that's coming through in
the form of
higher energy prices. That's showing up
in the currency and it's showing up in
EM bond markets and spreads widening. In
fact, just on this very note, let's
bring in Marcus Wong with the perfect
segue into him, our rates and emerging
markets macro strategist. Marcus, thank
you for joining us. I mean, fantastic
piece. We're coming off post-Fed fairly
hawkish. Brent is still
acting up, and Asian FX is really taking
it on the chin. How are we How should we
be looking at the prospects for Asian FX
now?
Well, I mean, it's simple to say this.
It's quite a double whammy uh for Asian
currencies. I mean, they've always
they've been underwater since the start
of the Iran war. Asia has been, you
know, at the forefront of, you know, uh
vulnerability to oil prices. So,
yesterday's, you know, announcement from
the Fed uh with the hawkish bent to it
uh definitely is a it is a, you know,
double whammy in the sense. I think it's
interesting to look, you know, if you
look at the performance of currencies
today, and the ringgit is actually
lagging uh most currencies in Asia. And
one would think that normally in in a
scenario where oil prices are elevated,
uh ringgit would be, you know, a
beneficiary as a as a net net oil
exporter. But this goes to show, you
know, that the impact of Fed is
trickling through. Uh there's probably
might be some unwinding positions, but
the ringgit is actually lagging uh in
despite the rise in oil prices. Um what
are the prospects for? Well, the
prospects are actually um
Asian currencies are actually diverging,
you know. Uh you clearly mentioned, you
know, peso is actually up today. Uh
well,
interestingly, even despite the fact
despite what we saw oil prices and, I
know,
um the Fed overnight, um
could it be supported from Central Bank?
We have to wait for a statement from
them. But I think in the outlook for a
lot of investors out there, it's
essentially, you know, for the net oil
importers like the baht, the peso,
uh the rupee, uh these are going to be
weighed down by higher oil prices. But
if you look at the the North Asian
counterparts, you know, like the won as
well as Taiwan dollar, the won is
actually slightly up today uh despite,
you know, eating a a serious heavy net
oil importer. And a lot of analysts are
pointing to the fact that they are a
beneficiary of the, you know, AI boom
that we are seeing and, you know, the
results that we saw overnight uh from
the some of the uh fan stocks definitely
support this this narrative. Um so,
essentially for North Asia, although
they are heavy net oil importers, um you
know, people expect their current
account surplus to be boosted by the AI
team. So, in a sense, we're going to see
this, you know,
dual narrative to divergence between the
North Asian currencies as well as those
in South Southeast Asia and South Asia.
Marcus, put that to us in yield terms.
And if I wonder if you could put that
for us in in terms that I don't know
that I don't know if you've done the
math on this. For every
Sorry to put you on the spot. For every
10% increase in oil prices, what does it
mean for EM yields on average when you
look at the potential increase we might
see on EM bonds?
Yes, so great question. So, let me just
start with that. Basically,
it was analysis of four scenarios since
2017 looking at areas where oil prices
were elevated. So, we look at scenarios
in the fourth week, eighth week, as well
12th week after, you know, oil prices
were 1.5% deviations above the long-term
average. So, what we notice is that, you
know,
obviously, it's, you know, your yields
will rise in in relation to higher oil
prices. But, what we saw was there was a
quickening in the rise in yields. So, as
we head into the as we are at the point
of the eighth week of the war,
what we saw in previous episodes from
the eighth to 12th week,
that essentially yields on average in
emerging Asia rose by 60 basis points
for a 10% rise in oil prices. And you
know, analysts put it down to a variety
of reasons. Part of it could be, you
know,
um
you know, the impact the secondary
impact of higher energy prices to
trickle into the wider economy.
Obviously, when
oil prices are high, energy cost goes
up, individual yields goes up. But, what
could also happen is fertilizer,
petrochemicals, you know, the whole
value chain is inflated as a result. And
you know, as you correctly mentioned at
the start of the before you before I
started speaking about BSP raising the
official target because they are too
very concerned about the secondary
impact of higher energy prices on, you
know, uh headline inflation. So, all in
all, you know, it's really no downside
risk for Asian currencies as well as
bonds, especially those uh from those
net or the economies.
And And should we expect uh Well, the
BSP might be I don't know. Uh tell me if
what what what do you think? Is the BSP
the median here or is it an extreme
example? In other words, when we look at
what the BSP says,
can we treat them as the most hawkish
across the spectrum or is that a path
that you think other central banks that
are find themselves in a similar dynamic
are likely to head are likely to follow
and emulate?
Well, I think it's fair to say that BSP
is definitely the most hawkish in in
emerging Asia. Um they are the only ones
who have signaled a interest rate cycle.
So, it's just not one hike,
progressively more hikes. Um for the
rest of emerging Asia, let's take
Thailand for example, who's also who are
is also quite vulnerable to oil prices.
Um you know, they started with deflation
before this. So, although inflation has
increased, uh it's still within the 1 to
3% target band or the expectations are.
So, I think the view in the market is,
you know, people are divided, people are
unsure whether there will be a rate hike
this year. There could be or there might
not be. Um some people are looking at
Malaysia. Um you know, growth has been
quite robust so far. Um some people say
there could There also could be a rate
hike from the Bank Negara Malaysia, but
again, there isn't a a strong consensus
on that. So, now we turn to South Korea
for example. Um if you look at market
pricing as of today, um you know, over
the 1-year horizon, swaps are pricing in
100 basis points. Um economists survey
don't really think that we'll see that
path, but I think you have to take some
of this see um in service of that. You
know, people are calling either for one
or two hikes from the BOK this year. So,
to your point, I think definitely BSP is
slightly more of an outlier
uh in this region, but more and more so
we'll see central banks hint towards
hawkish signals.
Marcus, thank you so much. Marcus Wong
there, our rates uh Bloomberg rates
emerging markets uh strategist there,
macro strategist in
uh in Singapore for us on the latest
take there. Right, we're really true to
form here as far as the the the
perceptions of the the news industry is
concerned, right? So, where I was going
with that if we haven't got enough
negativity through that to the form of
markets, David Fyfe probably has more
bad news.
He's joining us right now at our
Bloomberg Opinion column team, of
course, because he says that Asia does
face an oil shock a lot more severe than
what we saw in previous episodes like
one that we had back in the '70s and
that episode could actually reshape the
energy mix and accelerate and here's a
positive spin at the shift towards clean
energy. He joins us from Sydney.
David, I second guess you right there,
but yes, let me let me let's let's get
let's get started with the premise here
and the the notion that we are
underestimating
the changes that the shock will bring.
Why do you think that's the case?
I'm glad you think it's not all doom and
gloom, but
yes, I mean I think if you look back to
round about 1980 in the wake of the of
the '70s oil shocks and look at how
people are talking about Europe and
compare that how people are talking
about Asia now. It's actually very
instructive because at that time people
still thought that Europe was going to
see you know surging demand for oil
through the '80s
and they really didn't think that it was
going to be affected the way it was. In
fact, what happened of course is oil
demand fell about 20% between 1973 and
mid-80s in Europe and and oil has never
recovered. Oil demand in Europe had
never recovered its its 1978 level.
I think Asia is in a very similar
situation to that now.
Emerging Asia is reckoned to be more
than 100% of LNG demand over the coming
years, 2/3 of the increase in oil demand
in in South and Southeast Asia alone.
And so it's sort of similarly crucial to
those forecasts, but but Asia like
Europe is fundamentally dependent on
imports and growing more dependent.
Obviously, Japan, Korea have long
depended on energy imports, but also you
know, Vietnam is a is a net fuel
importer. Um Malaysia, Indonesia, long a
um you know, long an OPEC member, is is
dependent on imports. And those gas
fields that have long powered places
like Thailand, Bangladesh, Pakistan,
those are giving out. So, it's really in
a similar boat to where Europe was in
1980.
Uh where are
Uh the reason I I guess frame it this
way is so today we earlier we had a
conversation with Johanna Chua City,
right? And I asked her question where,
you know, when the war began,
immediately almost within the next, I
would say, 24 hours of when things
really kicked off, lines around blocks
to get gasoline, energy officials
starting to do their inventories and
telling us how much inventory that had
left uh in oil. But here we are 2 months
after, and yes, we have seen points of
of acute pain, but we really haven't
seen the doom and gloom that was
projected back 8 weeks ago. So, I guess
the reason I've been asking this
question, where are we actually seeing
these shocks showing up?
I mean, I I I think there I say that you
know, a lot of us are
situated in in wealthier countries where
the doom and gloom is not showing up so
much. I mean, if you look at you know,
look at somewhere like Japan,
they've you know, they've they've
increased subsidies. Actually, in in
March
energy prices declined. Energy inflation
declined in in March in Japan. Basically
because of cuz of a lot of the subsidies
and a lot of the oil that was released
from from reserve. But then look at
other countries. Look at I mean, the you
know, the likes of Pakistan,
Philippines, Sri Lanka, they're
operating on these 4-day weeks.
You know, I was reading
just recently about in the Philippines
some of these
jeepney driver who a lot of these
incomes for
these jeepney drivers, the public
transport drivers have fallen 80%
because of the rise in diesel prices.
One of them like sleeping on the
streets. You've got power cuts in
Pakistan in in middle of a 40° heat
wave.
And these are things that will get
remembered for a very long time. I I was
born in the mid-70s in the UK, and I
grew up with memories passed on from my
parents of the sort of energy crisis,
the 3-day weeks of the '70s. And this
sort of thing I think is
will show up and be remembered for years
to come.
So, in terms of the the response then to
you know, where we are seeing the
response to reduce oil and gas. I mean,
you mentioned you know, truncated work
weeks. Are we likely to see more of what
we've seen so far? Where should we be
looking now?
I mean, I think clearly it started this
starts affecting lower income places
first, and then it'll affect higher
income places later. Here, you know,
here in Australia we've managed to
source a a great deal of
of oil product from around the world.
And actually the prices pump prices have
been going down recently. But I think
the thing that we're going to see next
is also consumers voting with their
feet. If you start looking at trade
data,
for instance,
solar panel trade,
imports to the Philippines in March, you
compare those to the installed solar
panels at the end of last year. It's an
increase of 50% in 1 month over the
total installation of solar panels at
the end of last year. And
less dramatic figures like the like
lights of Pakistan and Indonesia, you're
seeing those are up by 25%.
Bangkok Auto Show
early last year, normally the big
the big Japanese internal combustion
engine brands, you know, Honda, Toyota
dominate. This time 2/3 of the bookings
were for Chinese EV brands. Auction
sales of
damaged EVs were up 50% in Australia
last month. So, people are really
starting to vote with their feet. And I
I think that's what we're going to see
more and more of as the months and years
go by.
Anecdotal here, David. You know, we were
literally this time yesterday we we were
speaking with HSBC
uh you know they're they're they're
they're their team that covers the EV
Chinese EV space specifically. Uh
so I asked her, "Where have we seen
exactly this, you know, this notion of
uh you know, the energy crisis in the
Middle East is accelerating the shift
toward sustainable?" And her answer was
very very short and quite pointed. She
said, "Since that point in time, BYD
sales in Australia
have actually tripled, which is I think
I guess anecdotal to that point." Now,
just in terms of the broader push toward
sustainability longer term,
the you know, there are parts of the
grid that we could replace fossil fuels
with, uh but there are also energy uses
like, you know, we can't simply replace
replace jet fuel
um as easily. Um where do we need to
sort of get our expectations up and
where do we need to temper our
expectations?
Yeah, well I mean I I I think if you
look at something like um sales of like
four-wheeler EV cars, they were very
strong at the end of last year. And a
lot of that actually was to do with
expiring incentives and things like
that. And you would be tempted seeing
where EV cars went in China to say that
the rest of the you know, the rest of
the region is going the same way. As I
say, you know, places like Thailand, you
know, half of car sales at the end of
last year were were EV. And even places
like Indonesia, we're sort of at 20%.
I'd actually probably temper those
expectations um because I think like for
stuff like EVs, you need a lot of
government spending on stuff like
charging networks. And that's going to
be more and more challenging, especially
as these governments are going to find
their budgets hit by the by the energy
crisis itself. However, look at stuff
like two-wheelers
in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, they're
like banning electric sorry,
non-electric two-wheelers in the in the
downtown areas from later this year.
Similar measures happening in New Delhi
from 2028. Um and also look at trucking.
Trucking requires a of um a lot of
charging, uh, but it doesn't have the it
doesn't have that many depots. You don't
need tens of thousands of charging
nodes. You only need um thousands or or
fewer. Uh, and that's 50% of of oil
demand in in most countries, road fuel
demand, uh, just goes to trucking. So, I
think instead of seeing uh the
electrification happening on four wheels
uh and private cars, I think like trucks
and EVs, I think we're going to see um a
dramatic change. Uh, look at the sales
in India of induction stoves um selling
out. Um, a new a new induction stove
costs the same as three gas bottle
refills. And uh LPG sales in March were
down 13%. That's something that could
switch quite fast.
David, fantastic. Thank you for the the
anecdotes, the details, and the context
there. David Fickling in Sydney for us,
our opinion columnist. Do check out uh
David's column, of course, today. Uh,
staying on the energy issue and speaking
of, uh, I guess wealthier parts of the
world that are uh somewhat dealing, of
course, with the issues as well. Hong
Kong, I think this was late yesterday,
uh, introduced said it will introduce
time-limited diesel and LPG [music]
subsidies to cushion businesses from
higher fuel prices linked to Middle East
tensions. Now, a [music] diesel subsidy
of 40, that's 40, US cents per liter,
uh,
will will run through [music] June 28
and covering fuel for public and
commercial vehicles and vessels. Now,
the LPG measure covering taxis,
minibuses, and private light [music]
school buses is expected to begin
in May. Right, uh, let's have a look at
earnings, too, to get you through this
morning. So, China Evergrande uh battled
uh developer, of course, posting a
first-quarter loss of [music] 87 871
million dollars here, which was actually
narrower than a year back. The result
was largely driven uh by weaker home
settlements [music] adding to a 24% drop
in revenue. Now, the company faces more
than 1.3 billion dollars of bonds coming
due uh in the next few [music] months or
so. Now, it has offered a 1-year
extension on 2-year bonds with payment
of 40% upfront.
Right. Uh Chinese AI chip maker
Cambricon, this one's a good [music] one
here. Uh shares are going to show you
that uh quite evidently they're up 9 and
1/2%. More than doubling first quarter
sales, [music] profit, and profits too
as domestic demand surged under
Beijing's self-sufficiency push. Now,
Cambricon is competing [music] with
Huawei to fill the gap left by Nvidia
and AMD after US curbs restricted at uh
>> [music]
>> access to advanced AI chips. Bloomberg
has been told that Cambricon uh could
more than triple AI chip output this
year.
Now, China's big three [music] airlines
were back in the black uh in the first
quarter as a surge in passenger demand
offset the impact of soaring jet fuel
prices. Air China led the rebound with a
profit [music] of $250 million in the
first quarter compared to last year's
loss of $298 million. Now, [music] China
Southern says its profit bounced back to
$216 million as it announced it's buy
it's buying $21 billion worth of Airbus
jets.
Speaking of Airbus [music] jets, uh and
speaking of the telemetry of not just
fuel prices, passenger volumes, air
traffic, SoftBank [music] has actually
gone the opposite way. We're up now 2%.
Lots more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Right. Time check. [music] It is
What time is it now? Somebody to say,
"Okay, it's it's 11:29 in in Tokyo where
we are headed towards the break." Um so,
we are reopening today with Japan. It
remains open tomorrow, but the rest of
Asia then
uh shuts. Uh SoftBank was very much in
focus this morning, up about 2%. I
believe we have a bond auction as well
to tell you about today, but uh, apart
from that, the big news, of course, in
Japan, or not the big news, potentially
big news, is really with the currency
and whether or not we get the the I word
uh, involved there. Uh, some form of
pushback given how quickly the exchange
rate has risen. I think overnight, I
think we hit the highest on dollar-yen
since 20 uh, 24. Asia, rest of Asia's
looking like this. We're down about 7/10
of 1% as S&P futures, Nasdaq futures are
in fact not on your screens, but just
take my word for it, are actually seeing
uh, a high a bigger bounce today. S&P's
up a third of 1%. Uh, we had a ton of
earnings coming through out of the
Magnificent uh, and of course we're
moving into the macro front of I think
the ECB, the Bank of England uh, later
in a couple uh, of hours. Okay. Now, how
do we need to be thinking about economic
growth, uh, the unevenness across the
region, uh, given everything that's
taken place with the energy shock, which
economies are actually seeing this
offset coming through uh, in the form of
AI? Where is that actually doing more
than enough to offset uh,
the the pressure to import crude, and
where which economies don't have that
sort of card to play, and are simply
just taking it on the chin? Uh, Johanna
Chua, uh, the global market uh, Citi
Global Markets uh, head of emerging
market economics actually told us
exactly about how they're laying out
that spectrum across these Asian
economies.
As time passed going into April, we saw
more and more economies starting to
translate the pass-through of the fuel.
So, you're starting to distribute some
of that shock. Korea and Taiwan, large
net energy importing economies, guess
what? We actually upgraded their GDP
growth because the AI cycle has been so
strong, and rather than have a
significant terms of trade deterioration
in the current account, because they
have so much pricing power on
semiconductor, it's actually gone the
opposite.
Okay, right on that last point, right?
The they've upgraded Taiwan and and and
Korea because they have the the AI card
to play and I think that really takes us
nicely into this almost 50-fold increase
in chip profit specifically, right? The
breakdown came through out of Samsung
today and really this this this on its
AI reliance on memory chips really
delivered fairly hefty
hefty
gains there as far as Samsung is is in
concern. Now, let's
let's bring in our team here, our Asia
equities reporters plural
Winnie Shu and Sunny Chawla to take us
through the different angles to the AI
story, the different side the two sides
of the same coin. Sunny, let me start
with you. Samsung expectations were beat
quite impressive set of numbers here.
Yeah, we're talking about 48-fold
profit. We're talking 36 billion dollars
in the first quarter for the operating
income and all of this is trickling down
from this massive spending from the
hyperscalers, right? Meta, Amazon
spending tons like million billions of
dollars really into the AI
infrastructure and we see this
happening, you know, even when you look
at the market cap of Samsung, it's
inching closer to 1 trillion dollar
mark. So, you know, we're now around 900
billion there, but it's it's had that
massive growth. And actually just now
we've been seeing that SK Hynix has been
also doing great, right? And then it's
parent SK Square, its market cap
surpassed that of Hyundai Motor, which
was number three in KOSPI. So, we're
seeing these massive moves and all of
this is because of this spending in AI
infrastructure and that's just all
boosting these market shares of these
companies. Is there concentration risk
and the sustainability of the CapEx
spend? How how is that featuring in your
conversation?
>> Yeah, so 45% is the waiting of these
three companies, right? SK Hynix,
Samsung and SK Square all together. So,
that there is that concentration risk,
but of course analysts are saying that
these uh chip maker division is going to
continue to actually come up with these
quarterly earnings that it's going to
come up with these um earning surprise
because we see that they're moving
towards the super cycle, not a boom and
bust cycle that we have seen, but
actually um more sustainable earnings
that we're seeing because of this
continued demand in in memory. And DRAM
prices has been surging. Um we see even
in Korea chip exports um in the first 20
days of April uh it surged 180%. So, you
can see in those data that uh there is
record selling and record shortage. And
it's also broadening out to different
places, you know, it's not just chips,
but we're really seeing that in some of
these uh smaller names and the
lesser-known names like MLCCs, semi
substrates, or all these um thermal
bonding that actually bought all of this
together.
>> what that means. Yeah, so I've been
studying a lot of this value chain. So,
all of these things are benefiting and
this is the action. This is the only
action that we're seeing in Asia. Yeah,
and I think Samsung mentioned in the
earnings call that they are expecting to
even accelerate the supply and so that
that those exports are about to explode
even
uh even further. Uh Winnie's with us
here to tell us about the opposite side
of this, right? The story that Winnie's
written and I think we can show that to
our viewers right now is the AI-led
rally in the Asia Pacific is actually
masking the deeper damage we're seeing
from the war uh in Iran. It's Tell us
about the story, Winnie. Yeah, exactly.
So, as we just mentioned this rally
pretty much is tech-led. We're looking
at the MSCI Asia's infotech sector
rising about 10% since the war began,
and it is pretty much the only sector,
one of the only two sectors that were up
since the war, and the rest of the
sectors pretty much still in the red
with the consumer discretionary sector a
big lag, down about 10%. So, it really
goes to show how um there is these real
economic concerns and reality there that
oil prices remain elevated and that
inflationary concerns are there. We see
these moves from central banks already,
be it the Bank of Japan or just now
Philippines as well talking about hiking
inflation outlook and also trimming the
growth outlook as well. Okay, so in
terms of earnings talk to us about
specifically that front.
>> Yeah, so that divergence showing up in
earnings as well, right? We just talked
about how Samsung's earnings very strong
the tech front. You have TSMC, you have
SK Hynix. But on the other side of the
story, you're looking at for example
Japanese companies. They are raising the
prices for bread, raising prices for
cooking oil, and also Toyota flagging
these supply chain concerns and you see
stocks down about 20% since the war
began already. And looking forward for
in terms of their earnings estimate past
three months, we're looking at the
infotech sector earnings estimate up
about 20% while the consumer sector
actually down about 7%.
The NT ratio, that's the Nikkei and the
Topix. What does it have to do with your
story? Yeah, so it is at around record
high levels right now, which means the
Nikkei really has been outperforming the
Topix. And interestingly, you're talking
about Nikkei 225 at record high levels
thanks to the tech rally, but the Topix
is still about 4 or 5% down compared to
pre-war levels. And JP Morgan actually
had a note yesterday showing how this
actually shows that sentiment in Japan
remains very weak broadly and it's at
its lowest level in six months. So, that
imbalance and distortion is really
showing up in Japan as well. Right,
fantastic. Really good context there,
two sides of the same coin. The good
news coming through up with Sang Me the
bad news of course. The bearer of bad
news is is Winnie there. You can't tell
it though from the smile of Winnie. All
right.
um
Like on this note, right? So, I think
we've hit a couple of milestones here on
both these markets. So, Taiwan and Korea
have taken out these milestones quicker
than Thanos has actually collected
Infinity Stones.
Taiwan surpassed the UK and Canada
recently.
I think Korea took out the UK. So, very
soon could take out Canada if this
continues and both could actually are
now eyeing India as the next one. And if
they do, of course, surpass India next,
will then become the world's fifth and
largest markets by value
in perhaps the next few weeks. Imagine
how quickly that's I think it's about 5
trillion added combined both in market
cap from about 12 months ago. So, the
Asia century, have a look at this. Eight
of the 10 largest stock markets in the
world are here in the Asia Pacific. And
quite clearly, of course, the US is
still by far the dominant place in as
far as market cap, size, liquidity, and
depth is concerned. You go down the list
though and as you can see a lot of that
list is now more this part of the world
with China at 15 trillion, Hong Kong at
7 and 1/2, India, of course, 5, and of
course, we've talked about Korea and how
Korea and Taiwan have really made their
way up this list very, very quickly
over the last few months or so. Right.
Now, on this note, right? What are
people doing in as far as being able to
capitalize on this booming market in
in Korea and in Taiwan. So, earlier this
week, in fact, we spoke with Korea
Investment Management the CEO JQ Bae on
why he thinks the Kospi rally has so
much to go and if he actually sees in
concentration risk when it comes to
memory chips.
Korea stock market performing very well
since last year.
This rally can be explained by three
different angles. One is government
failure programs, which is started last
year. Triggered
the ratings of Korean undervalued
stocks. [clears throat]
And second one is
government
real estate tightening policy, which
triggered money shifted from the real
estate market to stock market. And the
third one is, you know, as we all know,
a strong momentum in memory
semiconductor industry. So, as a result,
the Korean stock market maintained
upward trend.
I'd like to recommend, you know,
investors
just to be cautious on focusing on
semiconductor. I mean, I mean, memory
chip a lot. Right. Semiconductor is, as
I told you, very cyclical. Right now, it
is in uh
supply shortage.
But no one knows, you know, when the
oversupply will happen.
All right. Just some breaking news
from Axios here. So,
a couple of things, couple of things.
So, President Trump is expected to
receive a briefing on perhaps new
options here for potential potential
potential military action in Iran. Uh
that's according to the CENTCOM
Commander
Admiral Brad Cooper based and two other
sources of course with knowledge of what
what's what's going on there. Uh so, we
are looking still through this for more
details, but it suffice to say
uh some of the headlines suggesting
these could be some of the options could
be short and powerful strikes
on on Iran and potentially including
things like infrastructure targets uh
for one. It's It's also worth just
pointing out that these are just options
that we understand based on that report.
Uh will be laid out, future tense, um
uh in front of the president for them of
for him of course to decide on uh
what next to do of course with that with
that information. But, suffice to say
that of course we have yet to see a lot
of progress if progress at all when it
comes to reopening the strait. And yes,
we are
this remains of course an option in
terms of an escalation as far as that's
concerned. Brent prices, there we go.
Tells you everything you need to know.
We're up 3% now, 121.50
on Brent. Lots [music] more ahead. This
is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. It's time for our
weekly segments on ETF IQ Asia. I mean,
certainly events that are taking place
in the real world in real time are
affecting everything else that's been
going on as well. Um so, just to mention
the breaking news in the last few
minutes or so, um of course the scoop
coming out of Axios here talking about
how President Trump is expected to
receive this briefing on new options,
military options, uh and as far as what
the military has proposed could be
possible uh in terms of striking Iran.
So, what we're seeing as far as markets
go is we are at session lows on the Asia
Pacific. We've completely erased uh any
semblance of the gains. We are just down
of course 8/10 of 1%. It's worth
pointing out in terms of magnitude. And
of course in Brent prices, yeah, if
you're just joining us for about a week
or so and taking a break, yes, we are
back above 120.
And the front-end contract is now at
121.50.
It doesn't help It doesn't help that
most of Asia will be shut from tomorrow
for a long weekend. So, uh the uh the
bar
to take on more risk is perhaps on the
higher side of things, particularly in
the last few uh minutes or so.
Notwithstanding, of course, the the boom
we're continuing to see across the the
AI space. And Samsung really is a good
reminder of of that boom still taking
place on the micro and macro front when
you look at macro numbers in in Korea.
Right, let's talk about all this and
more. And let's bring in money manager
who's actually selecting and speaking of
ETFs and using ETFs in his portfolio
where they now actually make up 60% to
focus on what investors should be
thinking about. Joining us here in set
is Alexey Merenkov, global head of
investment solutions at Leavitt. Very
nice to see you. Yeah, thank you for
having me.
Could you tell us a little bit about
what you guys do? We manage money for
individuals, fiduciary discretionary
investment portfolios with the goal of
doing well in terms of relative to
markets,
hitting their financial life saving
objectives,
and making sure that we manage costs as
much as we can because of course that's
one of the biggest determinants of a
good result in investing over the long
term. Okay, so these are long-term
investors in terms of the time horizon,
or do you do tactical as well? We do
both. Depends on what the client asks us
to do, but it's about
you know, about 1,500 individuals around
the world. We only manage money for
people,
and we use ETFs, we use stocks, we use
alternatives, really whatever is right
for their financial plan. Okay, so I
mean 1,500 people might be generalizing
in the next question, but what's been
popular recently?
You know, to be honest, our clients
self-select us because they think about
not what's happened over the last two
three months, but what do they need to
do over the next
10, 20 years.
So, global asset allocation, long-term
capital market performance,
certainly and a desire to hedge the oil
risks,
to think about diversifying from the US
because US markets are expensive, and of
course the US
is almost certain to be unique in the
world of having a very tech-focused
market and not as much energy market.
Yeah,
I'm looking at what you bring here. So,
I'm just reading my notes here.
Outcome-oriented design over product
novelty. That sounds like something I
would read on LinkedIn. What does it
mean in the in real terms? It means we
don't buy the hot new thing for our
clients. Um
if a client is interested in Asian
equity exposure, we're going to look at
what has worked in Asian equities over
the last 10-20 years. What's the best
way to get that exposure, not with the
shiniest new thing that's being marketed
uh by investment banks or private banks
to clients. Do people still look at Asia
as one?
They do. You know, we have a global
business. We have a We have people in
the US and we have people in Asia. Our
US clients look at not only Asia as one,
but rest of world as one.
It's a US portfolio and a tiny little
ex-US portfolio. Within Asia, of course,
people get a lot more granular. Um tends
to be a Japan, China, and everything
else. Question. Mhm. Now, just in terms
of ETFs and you're based in Hong Kong.
Yes. With the arrival of more and more
of these products,
uh has liquidity to become an issue in
in as far as the individual offerings
are concerned?
You know, I think there's a massive
misconception about liquidity in ETFs.
People think that just because an ETF is
small or because it doesn't have a lot
of trading um means you can't put a
large trade through. That's That's
simply not not true. There's plenty of
market makers. If you know how to trade
ETFs, you can trade any ETF in size.
Um
the proliferation of so many more
products actually is a good thing. It
gives you a lot more choice um
and the market makers really are able to
generate enough liquidity. So, you know,
we we've done $200 trades in ETFs that
were $100 the day before. Mhm. That's in
Hong Kong? Correct. Okay. Mhm. Elsewhere
in the region? I mean, is it unique to
Hong Kong because I mean, Hong Kong's
been around
>> No, I mean, Japan, Japan, China, Korea,
and Hong Kong are the four places where
really liquidity is not a problem
anymore. When you get to Southeast Asia
um
and to lesser extent Taiwan, yes, you
have that problem because every market
is unique. In the US, you have one
gigantic market. In Europe, increasingly
more and more similar, but in Asia, we
still have different regulatory regime,
different exchange rules for every
single ETF. So, you've got to know how
to trade that local market if you're
going to. Active ETFs have been
a hot topic recently. We've seen a lot
of global issuers come to this part of
the world and looking at being able to
do that. Is the market ready
for that? I mean, we certainly are. We
we We were among the first people to
start using them, because active ETFs
are pretty phenomenal thing. They take
all the good things about active, which
is, you know, insight, professional
management, and remove all the bad
things, which is concentration and high
fees.
So, you can get similar strategies for
much, much lower ongoing holding costs,
and therefore they actually have a
chance of outperforming. If you If you
take enough risk to to outperform by 1
or 2%, but you charge 1 or 2%,
why bother? Right. If you take enough
risk to outperform by 1 or 2%, but then
in ETF active ETF form, you're charging
30 basis points.
There's a very likely scenario that you
consistently outperform.
So, it does make a lot more sense.
Is the market ready?
I think long-term investors,
because active ETFs do not make sense
for short-term. If you want to bet on
Korea's you know, memory chip ramp, you
shouldn't use an active Korea ETF. You
should just buy a Korea ETF straight up
beta, [snorts] or buy a memory chip ETF.
Right. But if you are thinking of a 5, 7
year allocation to Asian equities,
then an active ETF may well make sense.
I know you're big on
making sure that cost is coming down as
well in terms of designing them and
everything else. And it does make sense,
right? Why would you go with an active
manager if they're charging you an arm
and a leg? But my question is
it it sounds easier said than done.
The
Have you seen
a trade-off between lower cost in ETFs
and the tracking errors that some of
these ETFs that are then able to
uh
to to be able to to say that they're
actually being able to to to track what
they want to track. Yeah, for for sure.
With active ETFs, the moment you go
active, your tracking error starts
starts to rise, and then you need to
think through as the selector, as the
asset allocator, um it's almost a
similar selection process to active. Do
I like the way they take their tracking
error? Does this approach long-term make
sense? Um
with beta, it was pretty
straightforward. It's an S&P 500 ETF. Um
which one is the cheapest? Which one is
the most liquid? What um
Does it track within a basis point or
within two basis points? With active,
not only are they all tracking by, you
know, half a percent, 1%, 3%, but the
way they're doing it is each one is
different. So, you've got to sit down
and understand what is the investment
strategy? How do they get to the 3%
tracking error? Because it may well, you
know, one approach will work well in one
type of market, and another will not
work. Well, for example, a value-focused
manager
will have done horribly during the last
3 weeks because they have massive, you
know, because tech stocks outperformed.
>> Right. Right.
Very quickly, I know you guys have
secured some funding for growth. What
What What are your plans very quickly?
Yeah. Um well, in short, to expand
everything we do for clients. So, we um
we've been um over the last 5 6 years
growing at about 20% a year, acquiring
new clients. But of course, the more
clients you have, the more services you
need to provide. So, we plan to grow in
Japan, where we have an office. We plan
to grow in Singapore, both on the client
side, but also investment capabilities.
So, I have a new person starting next
week on my team. We're probably going to
add a few more. Um
do more in public markets, but also um
start to develop some uh private market
capability uh to be able to help our
clients allocate to that, but again, in
a low-cost, efficient way.
Uh looks like we have a lot to talk
about in the next time next time.
Alexey, thank you so much for for taking
the time here. Alexey
uh Mirnenko, the global head of
investment solutions at wealth
management firm Leavitt Wealth. You can
tune in to if you think the set is cool
and the music is also such ETF IQ Asia
every Friday. [music] It's Thursday
because we're on holiday tomorrow on the
China show we'll be bringing you more
analysis conversations
lots more ahead. This is [music]
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. We have about a minute
left on shows [music] before we wrap
things up couple of big stories to tell
you about before we pass the baton here.
Camber Khan is really one to the upside
here. Fantastic set of numbers Morgan
Stanley's out with a bullish note on the
company [music] effectively more than
doubling revenue and profits shares are
up as you can see 15% also up oil with
the latest headline coming through the
scoop here the president [music] Trump
based on the reporting coming out of
Axios here that is perhaps weighing or
perhaps looking at more military options
oil is now back above a hundred and 21.
[music] So it doesn't help that most
markets in the region will be shut from
tomorrow. So it's understandable why you
are seeing
risk appetite [music] Wayne
over the last few minutes or so a list
of markets that are not up and running
tomorrow left side up my screen. [music]
So it's pretty much Japan
and Oz I believe that are up and running
tomorrow. That's it from us here lots
more ahead of course of Bloomberg
Television. Thank you for joining
[music] us today.